## Retail Credit Exposures

The following table includes first lien and junior lien mortgages and revolving exposures allocated by PD range as of December 31, 2024. First lien mortgages represent approximately 85 percent of the exposure amount, with other home equity credit exposures approximately 15 percent.

The following table presents a summary of qualifying revolving exposures (primarily consisting of credit card exposures) allocated by PD range as of December 31, 2024.

The following table presents a summary of all other retail exposures that do not meet the Basel 3 definition of either a residential mortgage or a qualifying revolving exposure, allocated by PD range as of December 31, 2024.

## WHOLESALE CREDIT RISK

Credit risk management for the wholesale portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our wholesale credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses. For additional information on the Corporation's credit risk management policies of its commercial portfolio, refer to Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

Wholesale exposures include corporate exposures, real estate exposures, bank exposures and sovereign exposures. Real estate exposures are further divided into income-producing real estate exposures (IPRE) and high-volatility commercial real estate exposures (HVCRE). IPRE exposures represent commercial real estate exposures where the method of reimbursement is tied to the income produced from those exposures. HVCRE exposures are a type of credit facility that finances or has financed the acquisition, development or construction of real property (excluding facilities that finance one-to-four family residential properties or commercial real estate projects that meet certain LTV and capital contribution requirements).

### Wholesale Risk Rating System

The Corporation uses three types of risk rating methodologies to assign risk ratings to wholesale exposure: internally developed scorecards, external mappings and the judgmental approach. Scorecards and external mappings both provide quantifiable and objective means to assess risk. The primary risk rating methodology is internally, empirically developed portfolio or industry scorecards. These scorecards are considered preferable due to the combination of rich data available from financial statements, relationship based obligor specific information that, in general, cannot be extracted from financial statements, and the fact that most are developed on and calibrated to internal bank default experience yielding a generally consistent default behavior among risk ratings across risk rating models. The majority of risk ratings employ empirically estimated, internally developed scorecards.

### Determining Wholesale Risk Parameters

Wholesale PD is an empirical estimate of the average one-year default rate over a mix of economic conditions including downturn conditions for the obligor risk rating grade assigned by the Corporation. PD estimation aligns the scorecard risk ratings with the definition of default according to Basel 3 and a consistent performance observation window.

Wholesale LGD is defined as the greater of (1) the estimated long-run default-weighted average economic loss per dollar of EAD the Corporation would expect to incur if the obligor (or a typical obligor in the loss severity grade assigned to the exposure) were to default within a one-year horizon over a mix of economic conditions, including economic downturn conditions; and (2) the estimated economic loss per dollar of EAD the Corporation would expect to incur if the obligor (or a typical obligor in the loss severity grade assigned to the exposure) were to default within a one-year horizon during economic downturn conditions.

Wholesale EAD is defined as the estimated dollar amount of the drawn exposure for a defaulted credit line over a 12-month time horizon. Wholesale EAD has two components, current outstanding carrying value and potential utilization of the unfunded commitment. Wholesale EAD is the empirical estimate of the amount of exposure that would be outstanding if an obligor defaulted, based on assumed homogeneous characteristics and statistical analyses of historical performance.

Wholesale capital parameters are periodically backtested and benchmarked to evaluate their ongoing performance and appropriateness. Backtesting validates the appropriateness of wholesale parameters by comparing predicted parameters to realized outputs. Benchmarking evaluates the wholesale parameters calibrations against external benchmarks and/or alternative measurement approaches.

For additional information regarding estimated losses, actual losses and factors that impacted the loss experience, refer to Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section and Note 5 - Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Wholesale Credit Exposures

The following table presents exposures to wholesale clients and issuers allocated by PD range as of December 31, 2024.

## COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK

Counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. This risk applies to OTC derivatives, eligible margin loans, repo-style transactions and cleared transactions. Cleared transactions include exchange-traded derivatives, OTC derivatives and repo-style transactions that the Corporation clears through a central counterparty. An economic loss occurs if the transaction or portfolio of transactions with the counterparty has a positive replacement cost or outstanding loan amount that exceeds any collateral posted by the counterparty before the transaction(s) could be unwound, in the case of counterparty default.

When calculating counterparty credit risk RWA under the Advanced approaches, we use a combination of methods to calculate exposure amounts and utilize the PD and LGD methodologies described in the Wholesale Credit Risk section to determine risk weights. The internal model methodology (IMM) is used to calculate EAD for the majority of OTC and exchange-traded derivatives, while the Standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) is used for certain OTC and exchange-traded derivatives not covered by IMM. IMM uses the Corporation's internal credit risk models to measure expected exposures by simulating the future movements of market risk factors underlying the derivative contracts, incorporating the effects of legally enforceable master netting and collateral agreements. Under SA-CCR, EAD is determined by adding the Corporation's replacement cost and potential future exposure as defined in Basel 3, with both measurements reflecting the risk reduction associated with legally enforceable master netting agreements and the value of eligible collateral received or posted. The EAD for eligible margin loans and repo-style transactions is calculated using standard supervisory haircuts under the collateral haircut approach.

In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide additional collateral or to terminate transactions with certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt ratings of the Corporation or certain subsidiaries. The amount of additional collateral required depends on the contract and is usually a fixed incremental amount and/or the market value of the exposure. For more information on credit-related contingent features and collateral, see Note 3 - Derivatives in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Valuation Adjustments

The Corporation records CVA on the Corporation's derivative assets, including our purchased credit default protection, in order to properly reflect the credit risk of the counterparty. CVA is based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors including changes in market spreads and non-credit related market factors that affect the value of a derivative. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. We also record a funding valuation adjustment to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. The Corporation also calculates a debit valuation adjustment (DVA) to properly reflect our own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative liabilities and/or structured liabilities. DVA is deducted from CET1 capital if there is a gain, and added back if there is a loss. For additional information, refer to Capital Management and Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section, Note 3 - Derivatives and Note 20 - Fair Value Measurements in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Credit Limits

As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. For additional information on credit limits, refer to Managing Risk, Capital Management and Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Collateral Valuation

Many of our derivative transactions are executed under collateral agreements. Collateral consists of assets that are pledged as security by a single counterparty to another as assurance of payment or performance against an obligation. Collateral agreements generally provide the Corporation the right to liquidate collateral held as payment in the event of a counterparty default. Collateral is managed by a centralized team and most contracts are subject to a daily mark-to-market process. Collateral movements are generally executed daily in accordance with the Corporation's standard bilateral agreement with the counterparty. Collateral permits the reduction of the overall exposure to the counterparty by netting the positive market value of a transaction against the market value of the collateral held after haircut adjustment.

Credit enhancements include a variety of provisions that may be used to reduce the credit risk related to a transaction or counterparty. Events such as a credit rating downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow the Corporation to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. These contingent features may be for the benefit of the Corporation as well as its counterparties with respect to changes in the Corporation's creditworthiness and the mark-to-market exposure under the derivative transactions. The Corporation's credit policy defines acceptable forms of collateral for OTC derivatives, repo-style transactions and eligible margin loans, and is generally limited to cash, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities, select Government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) mortgage-backed securities and certain high quality sovereign securities.

For additional information, refer to Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Counterparty Credit Exposures

The following table presents RWA by transaction type as of December 31, 2024.

The following table presents counterparty credit risk exposures for OTC derivatives, repo-style transactions, and eligible margin loans allocated by PD range as of December 31, 2024. The table does not include cleared or unsettled transactions.

### Wrong-Way Risk

Wrong-way risk arises when credit exposure to a counterparty during the life of a trade is adversely correlated to the counterparty's credit quality. The Corporation uses a range of policies and reporting to detect and monitor wrong-way risk from trade inception until maturity of the transaction. Product approval policies and forums have been established to review potential situations of specific wrong-way risk prior to trade inception. The Corporation has also developed a stress testing framework that is utilized for scenario analysis to proactively manage wrong-way risk in the portfolio.

For information on Counterparty Credit Risk and Credit Derivatives, refer to Note 3 - Derivatives, and Note 20 - Fair Value Measurements in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K. For information on collateral held, refer to Schedule HC-L "Derivatives and Off-Balance Sheet Items" in Bank of America's December 31, 2024 Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies - FR Y-9C.

## CREDIT RISK MITIGATION

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each.

For wholesale credit exposures, credit risk management begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. The Corporation refines its underwriting and credit management practices, as well as credit standards, to meet the changing economic environment. As part of its credit risk and portfolio management activities, the Corporation purchases credit protection in the form of guarantees, private credit risk insurance and credit derivatives to hedge exposures that it purchases, originates or participates in such as loans and investment securities. Under Basel 3, the Corporation recognizes the risk mitigating effect of qualifying credit risk hedges on banking book wholesale exposures in its regulatory capital calculations. Eligible credit hedges that the Corporation typically uses to mitigate credit risk and that also provide regulatory capital relief include guarantees and credit protection purchased from third parties. Eligible credit default swap counterparties serving as guarantors of credit risks in the banking book include commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies.

Apart from using eligible credit hedges to mitigate credit risk of wholesale exposures as described above, the Corporation also uses other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the loan portfolio such as loan sales, including syndication of exposures to third parties, and portfolio risk diversification through loan size and geography. The Corporation also reviews, measures and manages commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property type.

The Corporation assesses credit risk using comprehensive tools and measures to allow us to identify and mitigate emerging risks before they become material. One process utilizes an analysis of commercial utilized credit exposure by industry based on S&P industry classifications. This analysis includes commercial loans and leases, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, derivative assets, assets held-for-sale and commercial letters of credit. Additional analysis focuses on assessing concentrations for outstanding commercial real estate loans by the geographic region where the property is located as well as the type of property.

A number of techniques are used by the Corporation to manage counterparty credit risk. These include but are not limited to netting, collateral agreements and credit enhancements. A majority of the Corporation's derivative contracts contain credit risk-related contingency features. OTC derivative transactions are generally executed under an industry standard approved form of a master netting agreement primarily in the form of International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. master agreements that provide the Corporation the right to offset amounts owed to the counterparty against amounts owed by the same counterparty and provides other rights such as the ability for the Corporation to terminate a transaction upon default. Secured financing transactions are generally executed under standard Master Repurchase Agreements, Securities Lending Agreements and other agreements that would serve similar purposes with respect to netting and termination provisions.

For inherent risk in securitization and resecuritization exposures, the Corporation manages and mitigates risk through offsetting positions and portfolio diversification. The use of offsetting positions includes the use of both macro- and position-level hedges to either reduce exposure to certain risk factors or potential market stress events. In addition, the Corporation maintains a diversified portfolio across securitized product types to reduce its sensitivity to individual product types, issuers and servicers. For further information, please refer to Note 6 - Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

For information on retail credit risk mitigation and processes for collateral valuation, refer to the Retail Credit Risk section above and Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

For additional information on the policies and extent to which the Corporation uses netting, refer to Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, Note 3 - Derivatives, and Note 10 - Securities Financing Agreements, Collateral and Restricted Cash in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K. For additional information on credit risk mitigation, refer to Credit Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

## SECURITIZATION

Securitization exposures under Basel 3 are defined as on- or off-balance sheet credit exposures that arise from traditional or synthetic securitizations (including credit-enhancing representations and warranties and resecuritizations). Traditional securitization exposures are those where all or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is transferred to one or more third parties other than through the use of credit derivatives or guarantees, whereas synthetic securitizations utilize derivatives or guarantees to transfer the risk to a third-party. Resecuritizations are transactions that contain one or more underlying positions that are securitizations. Additionally, in all instances, securitizations reflect exposures where the credit risk has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting differing levels of seniority; performance of the securitization depends on the performance of the underlying exposures; and all or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures. On-balance sheet exposures include loans, available-for-sale (AFS) securitizations and trading securities. Off-balance sheet exposures include liquidity commitments, guarantees and derivatives. U.S. agency and GSE mortgage-backed securitizations (e.g., Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae) that issue pass-through securities that are not broken into two or more tranche levels of seniority are not considered securitizations under the Basel 3 definition and are not included in the discussion that follows.

The Corporation periodically securitizes different types of exposures including residential loans, commercial loans, auto loans and leases and student loans. These securitizations are a source of funding for the Corporation and a means of transferring the economic risk of the loans or debt securities to third parties. Through the normal course of business we buy and sell securitization and resecuritization exposures across a number of asset classes. We are focused on making two-way markets and intermediating transfers of risk between clients. We also continue to manage a legacy portfolio with the primary objective of managing the risk while reducing the exposures.

In a securitization, various classes of financial instruments may be issued and are generally collateralized by a single class of transferred assets which may include residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, credit card receivables, home equity loans, automobile loans, municipal bonds or other securities. Loans that have been securitized may be serviced by the Corporation or by third parties. With each securitization, the Corporation may retain a portion of the resulting instruments, such as securities, subordinated tranches, interest-only strips, subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables or, in some cases, over collateralization and cash reserve accounts, all of which are referred to as retained interests. The Corporation may serve as originator, investor and/or servicer/collateral manager of assets transferred into traditional securitization vehicles. The Corporation may also provide credit enhancement or serve as liquidity provider to securitization vehicles. As an investor, the Corporation and its subsidiaries hold securitization positions from third-party originated deals and in some instances from internally originated deals.

The Corporation follows the Basel 3 prescribed hierarchy of approaches for computation of RWA related to securitization exposures and applies either SFA or SSFA provided the Corporation is able to meet the operational requirements related to data and modeling as required by these methodologies. The Corporation applies a 1,250 percent risk weight to those securitization exposures where SFA or SSFA cannot be applied.

### Risk Management

The Corporation manages credit and market risks related to securitization and resecuritization positions, including portfolio risk and seller's risk, according to the Corporation's Risk Framework. Methods to monitor credit and market risks may vary based on the type of securitization portfolio.

Credit risk management is responsible for approving credit exposure to new and ongoing securitization and resecuritization exposure. Initial and ongoing reviews include consideration of underlying collateral quality, credit enhancement levels and structural features. Portfolio management is responsible for monitoring periodic servicer reports against any loan performance triggers or covenants, as well as overall performance trends in the context of economic, sector and servicer developments.

Risk management closely monitors the securitization inventory and analyzes changes in trading positions, the composition of portfolios and market risk factors to assess the overall level of market risk of securitizations and resecuritizations to which the Corporation is exposed. For the purpose of managing the Corporation's risk appetite in relation to securitizations and resecuritizations, limits are established and tracked daily in the centralized limits management system. These limits range from granular measures such as fair value and the sensitivities to changes in market risk factors to aggregated portfolio measures such as Value-at-Risk (VaR) and stress testing results.

The modeling framework for securitization and resecuritization risk is based on a look-through approach to the underlying collateral level data. Models are used to project prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity, which are key inputs in the valuation for both government guaranteed and private label securities. These models incorporate market variables such as the level and volatility of interest rates and credit spreads, as well as macro-economic variables such as GDP, unemployment and housing prices. Models are backtested periodically to measure the accuracy of the model forecasts against actual underlying collateral performance.
