### Due Diligence

The Corporation performs due diligence for each securitization and resecuritization exposure, and documents such due diligence within three days of acquiring each position and on an ongoing basis at least every 90 days as required by Basel 3. The Corporation's due diligence focuses on each position's structural features and credit metrics of the underlying assets of the securitization and resecuritization that would materially affect the performance of the position.

For information on accounting policies for securitizations, refer to Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 6 - Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Securitization Exposures

Table 10 presents the outstanding principal balance of assets which were originated and then securitized by a Bank of America-sponsored vehicle where the Corporation has retained exposure as of December 31, 2024. Third-party assets in which the firm has retained an interest are shown separately. Assets that are 90 days or more past due or in nonaccrual status are shown below in the last column. Tables 11 and 12 present banking book and trading book exposures that receive securitization capital treatment, with the exception of correlation trading positions presented in the Market Risk section of this report.

As of December 31, 2024, an $11 million gain-on-sale in connection with securitization exposures was deducted from the Corporation's capital. No credit risk mitigation is applied to securitization or resecuritization exposures as of December 31, 2024. The total amount of exposures intended to be securitized as of December 31, 2024 was $2.13 billion across commercial real estate and corporate loan exposures.

For additional information on securitization exposures, including exposures securitized by the Corporation, gains (losses) recognized during the period and securitization activity, refer to Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 6 - Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

## MARKET RISK OVERVIEW

Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our asset and liability management (ALM) activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on our results. For additional information, refer to Market Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option. For additional information, refer to the Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book section below.

### Trading Book

Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments.

Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which the Corporation is exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.

Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where the Corporation is able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval. The characterization of an exposure as a trading asset or liability under GAAP does not necessarily determine its treatment under Basel 3. Trading assets or liabilities that do not meet the regulatory definition of a covered position are excluded from market risk capital treatment and subject to the credit risk capital rules as non-covered exposures. The Corporation maintains policies and procedures for the determination of exposures meeting the covered position definition. Throughout this report, covered positions are also referred to as "trading book" positions. Similarly, non-covered positions are referred to as "banking book" positions.

For additional information on market risk RWA calculated by capital requirement component under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches, refer to the Market Risk Regulatory Report for Institutions Subject to the Market Risk Capital Rule - FFIEC 102 for the period ended December 31, 2024.

### Trading Risk Management

To evaluate risks in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level, which means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days. For more information, see Trading Risk Management within the MD&A section in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

### Regulatory VaR

The VaR statistic used for the regulatory capital calculation shown in Table 14 is defined by regulatory standards (Regulatory VaR) and it differs from the VaR statistic disclosed in the Corporation's SEC disclosures (disclosed VaR) due to differences in the population and holding period. Regulatory standards require that Regulatory VaR only include the covered position portfolio, while the disclosed VaR also includes non-covered positions. The holding period for Regulatory VaR is ten days while for disclosed VaR it is one day. Both Regulatory VaR and disclosed VaR utilize the same framework and the same historical data.

Within the tables below, the Regulatory VaR for each of the risk factors captures the expected loss with a 99 percent confidence level, similar to a stress scenario for each discrete risk factor. For example, the Regulatory VaR for the interest rate risk factor identifies the potential loss the Corporation is not expected to exceed more than one out of every 100 days based on the previous three years of historical data for just the interest rate risk in the Corporation's portfolio. The historical days that generate these hypothetical losses might be different than the historical days that generate the hypothetical losses for the credit spread risk factor or for the Corporation's total portfolio. The combination of the potentially different historical days that generate the hypothetical losses for each risk factor is what produces the diversification benefit across the portfolio. As a result, the sum of the Regulatory VaRs by risk factor is greater than the total Regulatory VaR.

Regulatory VaR does not incorporate the value that covered positions would gain or lose, in the absence of market moves, as they move toward expiration, which is known as time decay. Therefore, for certain portfolios the distribution of potential gains and losses estimated by the VaR model can produce a Regulatory VaR result that is not a loss.

The market risk related to all covered positions to which the Corporation is exposed is included in the total Regulatory VaR results. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets segment.

### VaR Backtesting

The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss with a goal to help confirm that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses.

The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or for which the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the types of revenue excluded from backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intra-day trading revenues.

Bank of America's backtesting multiplier remains unchanged at three for the December 31, 2024 reporting cycle. Backtesting excesses for our total Regulatory VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, occurred one time during the 250 business days ending December 31, 2024.

### Regulatory Stressed VaR

Stressed VaR (SVaR) is a variation of VaR in which the historical window is not the previous three years but is calibrated to a continuous 12-month window that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the Corporation's current portfolio. Regulatory SVaR is calculated daily based on a 99 percent confidence level, a ten-day holding period and the same population of exposures as Regulatory VaR. The Corporation utilizes a single model and process to calculate all Regulatory VaR, Regulatory SVaR and disclosed VaR statistics.

### Incremental Risk Charge

The incremental risk charge (IRC) model is one component of the regulatory capital calculation for market risk. The model is intended to capture the potential losses that non-securitized covered position credit products in the trading portfolio might experience over a one-year period of financial stress from defaults, ratings migration and significant basis risk factors. To calculate potential losses at the required 99.9 percent confidence level, the Corporation utilizes a Monte-Carlo simulation calibrated using relevant, available historical data for each risk factor in order to sample potential market scenarios. The model reflects the impact of concentrated risks, including issuer, sector, region and product basis risks, and assigns a higher potential loss to a concentrated portfolio than a more diversified portfolio with a similar credit profile. The model framework also captures the broad relationships between the different risk factors and is flexible enough to allow additional dependencies or risk factors to be incorporated in the future. The IRC model assumes a constant position and a one-year liquidity horizon.

The IRC value used for the regulatory capital calculation is based on the higher of the period end value or the average value of the preceding 12 weeks.

### Comprehensive Risk Measure

The Corporation's comprehensive risk measure (CRM) is another component of the regulatory capital calculation for market risk. The Corporation computes the metric as the greater of the modeled measure of all price risk or the total specific risk add-on applied to the Corporation's modeled correlation trading positions.

The modeled component of the CRM takes into account all of the risk factors that materially impact the value of the positions within the correlation trading portfolio. The model captures the complexity of these positions including the non-linear nature of the trade valuations, particularly during periods of market stress, and the impact of the joint evolution of the risk factors. The modeled component of the CRM utilizes the same Monte-Carlo simulation framework as the IRC model with the additional risk factors required for the correlation products in order to calculate the potential losses at the required 99.9 percent confidence level. The modeled component of the CRM, like the IRC model, assumes a constant position and a one-year liquidity horizon.

The CRM surcharge is calculated using two components. The first is the assessment made using the SFA, which calculates capital on securitization exposures based on the amount and the level of subordination available as credit support to each exposure. The second component of the surcharge is the capital for hedges of the correlation portfolio which are calculated under the specific risk standard charge framework. The surcharge is equal to 8 percent of the greater of the net longs or shorts of these aggregated components.

The CRM value used for the regulatory capital calculation is based on the higher of the period end value or the average value of the preceding 12 weeks.

The Corporation conducted an analysis to assess the validity of the IRC and CRM models and respective methodologies prior to being granted approval by the U.S. banking regulators to utilize the models. This analysis consisted of a comparison of alternative theories and approaches along with an understanding of the necessary assumptions and limitations of the models, as well as assessing the impact of stressing the calibrated parameters. This analysis was shared and discussed with the relevant regulatory agencies to ensure compliance with regulatory guidelines. The models are continually monitored to ensure that the implementation and applicability remain valid. We perform stress tests on these models on a regular basis. The calibration of these models is regularly reviewed. We incorporate relevant market data and changing market conditions on a regular basis. As with the Corporation's other quantitative risk models, the Stressed VaR, IRC and CRM models fall under the oversight of the Enterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC) and adhere to its independent analysis and ongoing governance and standards policies.

### Trading Portfolio Stress Testing

Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. For more information, see Trading Risk Management - Trading Portfolio Stress Testing in the MD&A of the Corporation's 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

## EQUITY EXPOSURES IN THE BANKING BOOK

Equity exposures in the banking book are primarily held for strategic business purposes and comprised of a diversified portfolio of investments in Bank-Owned Life Insurance, private equity investments and other equity investments primarily reported in other assets, as well as certain equity investments included in trading assets on the balance sheet that do not meet the criteria for market risk regulatory capital treatment. These positions are held either as direct investments or through a fund.

### Accounting and Valuation

Under GAAP, equity investments are generally required to be carried at fair value through net income with certain exceptions, including those accounted for under the equity method, ownership interests in exchanges, equity interests held by a broker dealer or investment company entity and Federal Home Loan and Federal Reserve Bank stock. Additionally, GAAP permits equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value to be carried at cost less impairment plus or minus observable price changes for identical or similar investments of the same issuer if certain criteria are met. Equity securities in the banking book are measured at fair value with all changes in fair value recorded in equity investment income. Certain equity investments in the portfolio are subject to investment company accounting under GAAP, and accordingly, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in equity investment income. At inception, the transaction price of an investment is generally considered to be the best indicator of fair value. Thereafter, valuation is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly traded comparable companies derived by multiplying a key performance metric (e.g., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition companies, entry-level multiples and discounted cash flows, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. Certain factors that may influence changes in fair value include, but are not limited to, recapitalizations, subsequent rounds of financing and offerings in the equity or debt capital markets. For additional information on fair value accounting and valuation techniques, refer to Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 20 - Fair Value Measurements in the December 31, 2024 Form 10-K.

Under Basel 3, approaches for determining risk weights for equity investments in the banking book vary based on the type of exposure. If the equity exposure is to an investment fund, the Corporation applies the full look-through approach, the simple modified look-through approach or the alternative modified look-through approach. For all other equity investments in the banking book, the Corporation uses the simple risk weight approach and applies the appropriate multiplier to each exposure according to the prescribed regulatory percentages.

### Equity Exposures

The following table presents the carrying values, fair values, exposures and RWA of the Corporation's equity investments by risk weight categories as of December 31, 2024.

There were $69 million in net realized gains arising from the sale and liquidation of equity investments for the quarter ending December 31, 2024.
